Welcome to the eLearning
session Getting
Started with Ensemble:
Record Mapper - Composite
and Serial Fields.
The Record Wrapper CSV
Wizard can automatically
create the field definition
for you from a sample file.
While this is easier when
the file has a header row,
much repetitive work can be
reduced even without one.
The sample file is identified
along with the record map name.
Identify the record
and field separators
and create the record map.
Composite and serial fields
cannot be created using the CSV
Wizard.
But they can be added later.
And you may want to change
the field names, especially
when there is no header row.
In the Ensemble
Management Portal,
we're going to
create a new record
map using the CSV Wizard.
So we will click on CSV
Wizard, then select File.
We will choose the
appropriate text file.
The record map
name is Demo.Name.
The separator character
will be a semi-colon.
We will keep carriage
return line feed
as our record terminator.
And we will check Sample
File has header row.
When we click Create
Record Map, the record map
will be created for
us automatically.
And the field names are those
that come from the header row.
Without the header
row, these field names
would just be Property1,
Property2, and so on.
Sometimes, the fields
in a fixed-width
or to delimited file,
are made up of subfields.
In the Record Mapper,
this is represented
by a composite field.
For a delimted record, you
can specify multiple separator
characters that define
the structural hierarchy
of the flat file.
By examining the
Name field, you can
see that there is a comma and
a space used as sub separators.
So we're going to add those
two characters to our field
separator list.
First, the comma, and then
the space, which is Escaped.
Once we have done
that, we're going
to make the Name field
a Composite field.
And then we're going to add
a new composite field, which
will be LastName.
We will add another
one, GivenName.
And the GivenName is
going to be a Composite
so that we can break
apart the first name
from the middle initial.
So we will add to the
GivenName, the FirstName,
and add one more
field here, which
will be the Middle Initial.
And there is our
Composite definition.
Once we save this, we should see
the change in our sample data.
And as you can see,
LastName separated by comma
from the FirstName,
separated by a space
from the middle initial,
have been defined.
Through a naming convention
for the field names,
serial classes can be created
and embedded in the record map
class automatically.
This can only be done with
the top level delimiter.
We're going to create two
sets of serial fields,
one for the home
address information,
and one for the work
address information.
By clicking on HomeCity, we will
change the name to Home.City
so that we will be able
to create the Home serial
class to be embedded directly
into the record map class
when we generate.
We'll repeat this procedure
for all of the Home fields
so that the serial class
will contain four properties.
And we will do the same for
the work address information.
Now, when we click
on Generate, we
will see that all
of the classes,
including the serial
classes for Home and Work,
will be generated as well.
And here's our list of
classes that were generated.
There are several pre-built
Business Services,
such as EnsLib.RecordMap
.Service.FileService to create
an Ensemble message
from a flat file,
as well as complementary
Business Operations like
EnsLib.RecordMap
.Operation.FileOperation
to create a flat file
from and Ensemble message.
These would be used with the
appropriate inbound or outbound
adapters.
Simply add the
appropriate record map
to the Business Service
or Business Operation
and fill in the
appropriate settings.
You have been watching
Getting Started
with Ensemble: Record Mapper
- Composite and Serial Fields.